README.md, before:

# Cloud Workshop

This repository contains a start Java Spring Boot application for the Cloud Workshop. The application was generated with [Spring initializr](https://start.spring.io/#!type=maven-project&language=java&platformVersion=2.4.4.RELEASE&packaging=jar&jvmVersion=11&groupId=com.jakubduchon&artifactId=webapi-demo&name=webapi-demo&description=Demo%20project%20for%20the%20Cloud%20Workshop&packageName=com.jakubduchon.webapi-demo&dependencies=web,data-jpa,postgresql) and contains Spring Web, Spring Data JPA and PostgreSQL driver dependencies.

The workshop is hosted for the 4th-semester Software Engineering students at VIA University Horsens. Throughout the workshop, students will learn how to deploy an application to AWS to utilize the cloud for hosting their Semester projects online.

## Architecture

To host the Spring Boot application we will use AWS Elastic Beanstalk, and AWS RDS to host a database. Both of the services are fully managed, require minimal setup and are part of the AWS Free Tier (for the first 12 months). The Spring Boot application will connect to the RDS database and will be exposed to the internet via a Web API.

![architecture diagram](https://github.com/Duchynko/cloud-workshop/blob/main/docs/architecture.png?raw=true "Architecture diagram")

## Prerequisites

- Git installed
- Java installed and set up
- PostgreSQL installed
- AWS Educate Account ([See how to get one here](docs/AWS_EDUCATE.md))

## How to set up the project locally

- Pull the project locally (e.g., using SSH with `git pull git@github.com:Duchynko/cloud-workshop.git`)
- Replace the `username`, `password` and `url` fields in the `src/resources/application.properties` and supplement your own database credentials

## References

- [Introduction to AWS Elastic Beanstalk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uiM1xzOX8Qg)
- [Deploying a Spring Boot Application on AWS Using AWS Elastic Beanstalk](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/devops/deploying-a-spring-boot-application-on-aws-using-aws-elastic-beanstalk/)

Commit message:

docs: add missing set-up steps and info about using a different db

README.md, after:

# Cloud Workshop

This repository contains a start Java Spring Boot application for the Cloud Workshop. The application was generated with [Spring initializr](https://start.spring.io/#!type=maven-project&language=java&platformVersion=2.4.4.RELEASE&packaging=jar&jvmVersion=11&groupId=com.jakubduchon&artifactId=webapi-demo&name=webapi-demo&description=Demo%20project%20for%20the%20Cloud%20Workshop&packageName=com.jakubduchon.webapi-demo&dependencies=web,data-jpa,postgresql) and contains Spring Web, Spring Data JPA and PostgreSQL driver dependencies. To use a different database, simply replace the PostgreSQL Driver with the one of your choice (e.g., MS SQL Server Driver).

The workshop is hosted for the 4th-semester Software Engineering students at VIA University Horsens. Throughout the workshop, students will learn how to deploy applications to AWS and utilize the cloud for hosting their Semester projects online.

## Architecture

To host the Spring Boot application we will use AWS Elastic Beanstalk, and AWS RDS to host the database. Both of the services are fully managed, require minimal setup and are part of the AWS Free Tier (for the first 12 months). The Spring Boot application will connect to the RDS database and will be exposed to the internet via a Web API.

![architecture diagram](https://github.com/Duchynko/cloud-workshop/blob/main/docs/architecture.png?raw=true "Architecture diagram")

## Prerequisites

- Git installed
- Java installed and set up
- PostgreSQL installed
- AWS Educate Account ([See how to get one here](docs/AWS_EDUCATE.md))

## How to set up the project locally

1. Pull the project locally (e.g., using SSH with `git pull git@github.com:Duchynko/cloud-workshop.git`)
2. Replace the `username`, `password` and `url` fields in the `src/resources/application.properties` and supplement your own database credentials
3. Make sure your database is up and running
4. Start the application

## Useful links

- [Introduction to AWS Elastic Beanstalk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uiM1xzOX8Qg)
- [Deploying a Spring Boot Application on AWS Using AWS Elastic Beanstalk](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/devops/deploying-a-spring-boot-application-on-aws-using-aws-elastic-beanstalk/)
